Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Hi, Jessica.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Hello. How are you this morning.
Jessica Freeman: I'm good, how are you
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I am good sun's out didn't get any better than that.
Jessica Freeman: Yeah, I live in Albuquerque. So, the sun is out all the time, but I just moved from Indiana, where the sun is never out so beautiful.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And makes a difference makes you appreciate the small things. As for sure.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yes. Okay, so what we're doing is we're going to complete what's called a bio psychosocial
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I'm going to ask you just a series of questions. And then if you could just give me as much information around each question, that would be great.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: OK. OK, so the first question is, what brings you to treatment and why now.
Jessica Freeman: Well, I've been in treatment for since
Jessica Freeman: April of 2016 and
Jessica Freeman: I've had some success with it.
Jessica Freeman: I actually am coming up on two years of continuous sobriety. On March 7 so that's exciting.
Jessica Freeman: I want to keep doing what's working
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. And can you tell me a little bit about your substance abuse history. What age did you first were what age were you first exposed what substance was it and how did it progress from there.
Jessica Freeman: When I was 16 I was introduced to alcohol and marijuana
Jessica Freeman: And i don't know i was i was a really good student and I didn't get really into it right away, but then when I was 17 I had, you know, a trauma happen and after that it became, you know, drugs and alcohol became my escape for you know 20 plus years.
Jessica Freeman: And it escalated, you know, by the time I was 18 or 19 I was
Jessica Freeman: Doing painkillers and you know I had tried like Coke and some other things. And then when I was 21 I, you know, went to the clubs and just got wasted all that time and you know ecstasy and all kinds of stuff and
Jessica Freeman: You know my over the years I became a mother when I was 23 and I wasn't really prepared for that.
Jessica Freeman: Mentally and emotionally. I have like arrested, you know, at like 17 years old and
Jessica Freeman: Yeah I did the best I could, but I was still drinking and using a lot of pain killers, you know, trying to live a normal life but
Jessica Freeman: It didn't go so well.
Jessica Freeman: Such as, what else do you want to know.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What alcohol is your primary drug of choice.
Jessica Freeman: Well, good choices on painkillers. But alcohol is the underlying basis of everything you know
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, any, any pain.
Jessica Freeman: Like me right now. Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Any physical issues that you've been dealing with any kind of pain.
Jessica Freeman: I mean like I have getting over a sinus infection so out a little pain in my head. But other than that, I'm good. And I saw a doctor and I have medicine, so I'm
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, no physical issues.
Jessica Freeman: No, not really. Okay.
Jessica Freeman: And formal
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, and you said that you had a history of substance abuse treatment and how many can you tell me a little bit about that.
Jessica Freeman: Well, sure. I like the first time I got
Jessica Freeman: Like when I went to rehab. Like I staged my own intervention. I told my parents everything I have been going on. And, you know, but they didn't really know how to deal with it. So they
Jessica Freeman: They didn't know anything about treatment and recovery and neither did I. So they ended up packing me up and shipping me off to nowheresville Oklahoma to Scientology rehab.
Jessica Freeman: Which, by the way, has nothing to do with the 12 steps and I spent five months in in Oklahoma basically learning, learning the basics of Scientology.
Jessica Freeman: Not what I wanted, or was interested in at all. But I had to do it. So I did it.
Jessica Freeman: And then I started drinking and using again like pretty much right after not I went a few years without using any like
Jessica Freeman: Drugs, per se, like hard drugs limited it to alcohol and painkillers.
Mm hmm.
Jessica Freeman: Actually, no. I think it was just alcohol for like three years.
Jessica Freeman: And then I got back into the painkillers and from there you know it just
Jessica Freeman: Took off and escalated.
Jessica Freeman: So yeah, so everything came to a head in April of 2016 my boyfriend.
Jessica Freeman: Well, I signed up to go to rehab because I knew that I needed to. And while I was in rehab thinking that my family and my boyfriend, the father of my year and a half year old son, year and a half year old. I don't think that's right.
Jessica Freeman: He was a year and a half.
Jessica Freeman: And you okay anyway. Um, but yeah, I thought everything was cool, like everybody was supportive. But then I went into detox, which is only for a few days. You know, like
Jessica Freeman: 10 days max and nobody would talk to me while I was there. And then when I got out my boyfriend took the baby moved out changed his number I couldn't reach him.
Jessica Freeman: And my parents were so angry at me for going back into rehab and embarrassing them and this that and the other, that they like protected his location and I didn't get him back until I you know really clean up my act and got my shit together, you know,
Jessica Freeman: So yeah, I went to detox and then I went right back out into the madness. Then I had to go into A RECOVERY HOUSE AND I WAS IN A RECOVERY HOUSE FOR like
Jessica Freeman: Four or five months. And that was between October of 2016 in February of 2017
Jessica Freeman: And then when I got out of the recovery house. I got I had been working, you know, you work up to it. You go from a complete gutter rap and then you learn how to be responsible.
Jessica Freeman: And then you go out into the world. So that's what I did. And I got an apartment and I, you know, was working, and then they let my son visit me
Jessica Freeman: And I noticed some serious signs of neglect and I was like, hey, I'm not sending him back to you. And he said, okay, and at that point he disappeared. You state of Michigan is not in our son's life early at all.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Wow.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Any past mental health treatment.
Jessica Freeman: Well before I got sober. I was diagnosed with borderline. But now that I'm sober. I don't really manifest any of those symptoms.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Any past suicide.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Attempts thoughts.
Jessica Freeman: Yeah, like when it got really bad. Yeah, but I didn't actually want to do it.
Jessica Freeman: And I didn't really try it. I was just like,
Jessica Freeman: It was a call for like cry for help kind of thing.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, any
Jessica Freeman: Stand at the time, but now I do
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Any past self harm.
Jessica Freeman: Just there at the end before I got sober.
Jessica Freeman: I'm just a little bit of cutting but
Jessica Freeman: You know, it wasn't a thing that I did in my life. And it was just when I was at the lowest bottom, bottom, bottom
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, um, any past homicide attempts. That's okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: All right, tell me, going back to your childhood. Tell me a little bit about the family dynamics that you grew up in, boy, your parents married your whole life, or did they separate divorce, we adopted.
Jessica Freeman: My parents
Jessica Freeman: Were married until I was 21
Jessica Freeman: They are very religious very strict and we were high achievers. It was just kind of expected and our family very musical as well. Um,
Jessica Freeman: My mom has difficulty with her emotions.
Jessica Freeman: And my dad is more of like a like ignore the problem type of thing, like he just both my parents live in still to this day like kind of a state of denial, they just
Jessica Freeman: An emotional. I never had a model for like emotional regulation skills, skills, and neither did my brother and he is also
Jessica Freeman: an alcoholic and a drug addict, but he lives in Portugal, and he doesn't think you know he doesn't identify as someone with a problem but
Jessica Freeman: He doesn't have any coping skills or emotional regulation skills, either. And it's sad. I've learned it. I've learned it in therapy and I learned it in
Jessica Freeman: A day and I'm super grateful because if I weren't an alcoholic and a drug addict. I wouldn't have learned what I know today.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So you have one brother is he older or younger than you.
Jessica Freeman: He's three and a half years older. And that is my only sibling.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And any mental health issues in your family or substance abuse or workaholic or gambling.
Jessica Freeman: Sure. My, my mom's grandfather was an alcoholic, but they kept it really hush hush. So nobody talked about it. I didn't find out until after he was dead. And then my dad side, we got a couple alcoholics and addicts. I have a cousin and Uncle
Jessica Freeman: Two cousins and an uncle that are alcoholics and addicts.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay I'm going back a little bit further. How was school for you.
Jessica Freeman: I did really well in school. I'm talking like elementary, middle and high school after that trauma at 17 I had enough credits to graduate early and I was not managing
Jessica Freeman: Well, so I graduated a semester early and went off into the world and moved out of my parents house two days after my 18th birthday.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Any are you currently in a relationship.
Jessica Freeman: Not have any romantic kind. No.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. Um, and it's just you and your son that live in the home.
Jessica Freeman: And my little dog.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. Um, and any past or present legal issues.
Jessica Freeman: And yeah, I had an arrest in September of 2016 which kind of precipitated the recovery house.
Jessica Freeman: It was
Jessica Freeman: resisting arrest, really. I was just drunk at home alone screaming obscenities at these children that were noisy and I didn't know that you don't have to open the door when the police come
Jessica Freeman: But yeah, that's all resolved. I went through probation and i i met all the requirements and that it's been over for a while with a November 2018 yeah
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay and and any financial stressors at this moment.
Jessica Freeman: Kinda. I mean,
Jessica Freeman: So my son is autistic and I'm a single parent and his dad really doesn't do anything to support anything on
Jessica Freeman: My mom is a big help financially but you know it's not her responsibility, so I can only work part time and take care of my son and like taken to all the things that he needs to go to
Jessica Freeman: I've tried 40 hours a week, it doesn't work, at least not at this stage in the game. So yeah, I mean,
Jessica Freeman: I make like $10 an hour, which I made more when I was in high school, like I've never made $10 and hours the shitty is wage, I would never work for that, but I'm working for that now because, well, the real estate thing. It's something I want to grow into in my career.
Jessica Freeman: Yeah, and also because I need to keep my income at a certain level so that I can stay qualified for the services that me and my son need
Jessica Freeman: Mm hmm. So yeah, I mean, I'm okay. Everything's gonna be fine. My mom's got my back. She's not going to let me land in the gutter. I'm good.
Jessica Freeman: I just don't like being in like under her thumb, you know. Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah yeah
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Not self sufficient.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Sense. Yeah. Um, is there anything that I didn't bring up that you think is important. We know about you.
Jessica Freeman: Hmm.
Jessica Freeman: Well,
Jessica Freeman: Like, for what purposes like therapy purposes.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, anything that you think is important for bright heart to know why we're working with you.
Jessica Freeman: Yeah, and
Jessica Freeman: You know how my ex stole my baby.
Jessica Freeman: I just told you about that. A few minutes ago. Okay, well my ex husband from when I was let's see we got married at 20 when I was 23 and I divorced him when I was 25 we have a son, his name is Brendan and Brendan is going to turn 17 next month, um,
Jessica Freeman: I lost both my babies like they were taking from from me and you know I've had, I've had key and back for a long for a while now. It was I got him back in
Jessica Freeman: late June of 2017
Jessica Freeman: But it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a thing for me like
Jessica Freeman: All I want to do is be the best mother that I can be and I you know I have so many regrets about
Jessica Freeman: The decisions that I made when I was younger about about my kids, you know,
Jessica Freeman: It's it's a thing, it's, it's a resonating issue for me. Like, am I a good enough mother.
Jessica Freeman: You know, I know. I can't fix what I've done in the past. But what I'm doing now and have been doing for a while now, now that I'm sober and good is
Jessica Freeman: Just really try trying to be the best mom, I can for my kids and have confidence about the mother than, than I am. People compliment me all the time on the mother than I am, but I just like, it's like, I don't believe it, you know.
Jessica Freeman: I mean, I do because I put in the work.
Jessica Freeman: I really do, but it's just this hot button for me and my mom was the star witness in both of the custody suits, where I lost my children and
Jessica Freeman: You know, we've had a lot to work through we've gone to therapy together. My dad and I have gone through therapy together and I don't harbor any like lingering resentments, but with my mom. She's got all this power over my life. She really does. And I don't trust her.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so you have something that you want to work on.
Jessica Freeman: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, um,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Let me think. Are they engaging you in any kind of group therapy.
Jessica Freeman: Yeah, I'm supposed to start group on
Jessica Freeman: Wednesday.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so you're going to be going to group. And let me take a look really fast and see who your primary therapist is because, are you interested in engaging in individual therapy to
Jessica Freeman: Um, yeah. I think that'd be great.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. Give me one second. Just give me
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Just pull you up in
Jessica Freeman: Can I ask you a question while you're looking
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Hold on.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: See where you're at.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so your doctors, Dr. Solomon.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And I am your therapist.
Jessica Freeman: Cool. Is that OK with you.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah. So what we'll do right now is we'll set up.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Appointments
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Will set up for the next three and the next three weeks appointments and will develop a treatment plan on specific things that you want to work on while you and I are working together.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It sounds like what I picked up on was guilt and shame. And that's always a big one.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Definitely letting go of resentments and developing trust with people that have harmed you in the past.
Jessica Freeman: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Does that sound like
Jessica Freeman: Yeah, definitely.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so tell me what is a good time. What's an ideal time date and time for you.
Jessica Freeman: Um, well, I work Monday through Friday.
Jessica Freeman: On Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. It's 930 to 330 and then on Tuesdays and Thursdays. It's 10 to four. So, and I dropped my son off at school at eight, so I can be home at like 830 and have that our in between.
Jessica Freeman: So I don't know. You tell me what do you have open
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So you're talking like Thursday morning about
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: 930
Jessica Freeman: Well, I have to leave for work at like 955. So do you have like nine or 915
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I think nine
Jessica Freeman: Yeah, okay.
Good.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: 9am on Thursday, so we will
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Let me just double check because I don't want to book. Yeah, and then
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So next week. I have somebody scheduled at 9am
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, I'm glad I looked
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I can do me see.
Jessica Freeman: Tuesdays at the same time would work.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I have somebody already scheduled for Tuesday to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And you're in group on Wednesday, so we can't do it on Wednesdays.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, what about
Jessica Freeman: I do it at 7:30pm on Wednesdays.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What about for next week, just for the 28th. What if we do 9am on that morning, and then I can get you
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: on Thursdays.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Follow the after that, after next week.
Jessica Freeman: Okay so Friday, February 28 at nine.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Then
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: The following week, we will do Thursday 9am
Okay, great.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I'm just getting you wrote down so that I can
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Be sure
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so from now until next Thursday or next Friday.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I want you to think about any other things that you
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Want to work on that we can work on an individual therapy.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: On top of the three things that we just mentioned.
Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And we will just start
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: developing skills different
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Or bring to the table, different scenarios on how you can work through things
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Or 20
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Don't put it in. Now, then they'll book me somebody in there so
Jessica Freeman: Yeah, I just did a repeating appointment on Thursdays indefinitely until we change it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So we are your Mountain Standard Time. So 9am my time.
Jessica Freeman: What are you Pacific
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, I'm in California.
Jessica Freeman: Okay, yeah. So 9am My time is what
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You're an hour ahead of me.
Jessica Freeman: Yeah, is it too early for you.
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so I'll play
Jessica Freeman: With it makes you feel any better. I have to get up super early to do this.
Jessica Freeman: Because I have to be completely ready before I take my kids to school and we have to be out of the house at 730 to get there. So getting both of us ready and out of the house by 730 I gotta get up really early just
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's okay, I'm starting this whole regimen of getting up at five in the morning.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Going to bed by 930 10 o'clock at night just really kind of restructuring, my whole sleeping pattern and it has been a challenge.
Jessica Freeman: I bet.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But yeah, eight o'clock is a good definitely a good time. It gives me enough time to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Do all my girly stuff drink coffee, you know,
Jessica Freeman: Yeah, coffee.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Vital is it
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It definitely is. Okay, so
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I've got your first one for Friday for the 28 scheduled
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And then let me get you into the week after. So that way it's done done and we don't have to worry about it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Jessica.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Thursday, the fifth
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Will go from
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That point forward will be on Thursdays at 9am
Jessica Freeman: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. Oh yeah, nine o'clock, your time.
Jessica Freeman: Right, right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: For some reason that
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: The time change. And it's only one hour. And it's so simple.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Just messes with me. I don't know what that's about one hour difference and I it's like I go through this whole thing was like one hour wait
Jessica Freeman: No, I feel the same way.
Jessica Freeman: Like, it seems like it's something simple, but then sometimes it gets complicated.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, alright, so I have you scheduled for Friday the 28th at
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: 8am your time.
Jessica Freeman: 9am my time or
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: 8am my time 9am your time.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh my gosh.
Jessica Freeman: It's going to be okay.
And
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Thursdays.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: From that point forward, and we'll just start developing and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Different
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I can bring to the table DB T skills CVT skills you
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Can look at emotion regulation, we can work out, you know, really kind of look at different avenues and faucets letting go of old you know guilt and shame and resentments and
Jessica Freeman: Just kind of really try to
Develop
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Develop some freedom in that area.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Sound like a plan.
Jessica Freeman: Yes. And you know, I actually have thought of something. Maybe we can add to the list.
Jessica Freeman: You know, we talked about the self sufficiency thing.
Jessica Freeman: I almost feel like it's impossible. You know, when we clear away the wreckage of our past.
Jessica Freeman: It's, it's so much right
Jessica Freeman: And I had to do five years worth of back taxes and it was a long slow, painful expensive endeavor. But I got it done.
Jessica Freeman: Mm hmm. And so this next mountain that I need to climb, if I'm ever going to get anywhere is
Jessica Freeman: Improving my credit score like getting it out of the gutter and having one
Jessica Freeman: Mm hmm. Which I don't even know it is very overwhelming. I don't have any idea where to start. And when I get overwhelmed like that I freeze and I do nothing. So
Jessica Freeman: Um, I don't know, like getting motivated to do that stuff and then staying on track with it and like, I don't know. I need to do something about that. And I've been frozen for a while on that and I need to. I need to fix it. If I'm going to move forward.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so we can definitely look at all options. I know one thing that I do is I go through Credit Karma.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, and Credit Karma calm and it's free and they check all three of your credit reports, give you a list of the things that are on your credit in collections and you can compile a list and phone numbers and be able to either dispute the charge through Credit Karma or
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Call them and make arrangements with them for, you know, with little to no monthly payments.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And that will help boost up
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Your credit score and help you get back on track. So there's that piece that we, you and I can talk about and work on through this process to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, okay.
Jessica Freeman: Cool. Thank you.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Sound like a plan.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yes. Okay, so I will see you Friday the 28th at ATM and we will go from there.
Jessica Freeman: Sounds good. Thanks.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Have a great weekend and I will talk to you next week. Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, bye.